Stop! Stop!
Access granted.
Alan.
No, don't get up.
You need to rest.
I'm fine.
You had a spinal tap. All right?
You had more than a sample's worth of
cerebrospinal fluid taken out of you.
Your body needs to replenish itself.
Well, when you put it that way... Heh.
How is Sarah?
Did you do an MRI?
Yeah, and it's...
It's incredible.
Her tumor is shrinking.
So it worked?
I thought you'd be thrilled.
I am. It's just,
given the circumstances,
I hope we did the right thing.
It was a quick call,
but it was the right one.
I can't explain the science
behind your transformation yet,
but what you did for this girl...
I wanna do for everyone who's infected.
You cannot give everybody
a CSF infusion. It'll kill you.
The genetic study Sarah was
doing before she crashed,
my cells are going to be the key
to finally taking down
this disease.
We can save these people, Alan.
All right. But we need to
work smart and fast.
This ilaria problem
will not go away,
and I have no idea
how much time we have left.
Set up a temp lab in here.
Go.
I'll keep an eye on Sarah.
Everything all right?
I'm afraid not.
We have a serious problem.
Medical emergency?
Is someone hurt?
Worse than that, I'm afraid.
People are disappearing.
Dr. Kato went out
to look for some food.
We warned her not to go alone,
but she wouldn't listen.
That rat didn't crawl in there
by itself.
What? The vectors are back.
We haven't had a vector attack
in two days.
Yeah.
They're using bait,
setting traps now.
They know food is scarce
and people are desperate.
How?
Viruses are not capable
of complex thought.
Speaking off the cuff,
I think these vectors represent
a new step in evolutionary virology.
You make it sound like
it's a good thing.
Far from it.
This is an evolved virus
that both changes the host
and stays active
until that host dies
of other causes.
It's created a new kind
of organism, a viral collective.
They were dangerous before.
What chance do we have
now that they've evolved?
Right now, the vectors
are hunting us one by one.
Very soon, I believe they'll stage
a large-scale coordinated assault.
They will have to wait in line.
Ilaria?
I intercepted a message from
headquarters on Sutton's phone.
How many?
A strike team of at least
100 mercenaries, well-armed.
That's not a strike team,
it's an army.
How long do we have?
Six hours at most.
They will storm the base
looking for the virus,
and leave nothing behind.
But we don't even have
the virus.
We destroyed it back at Echelon.
Mortal life means nothing to them.
Oh, as opposed to those of you
who can live forever?
I know this is difficult for someone
with a finite number of years.
I don't know what's worse.
That you can stand there
lying to my face,
or that you actually believe
what you're saying.
Did you get a head count?
Uninfected personnel, about 20.
Plus five security techs.
And we're not exactly well-stocked
with guns or ammunition.
If we don't act now,
we risk full contamination.
We need to gather
those survivors
and place them under armed guard
in the sunroom.
No air ducts, one point of access.
It's the only way to defend against
a coordinated vector assault.
That only solves
one of our problems.
How are we supposed to muster
a defense against ilaria's force?
Defense is not the plan.
I have placed explosives
around the base.
You have explosives?
To detonate unstable ice.
His grand plan?
We draw ilaria mercenaries inside,
then set off the charges,
implode the entire base
on top of them.
But what about my team?
What about the other
uninfected scientists? Vectors?
Gather the uninfected,
as you suggested.
As for the vectors,
we are out of options.
You still haven't
answered my question.
What about the rest of us?
We'll have to evacuate the base.
No.
There is a hidden bunker
underneath the base.
Reinforced for earthquakes.
We will be safe there.
What bunker?
We lost three people just this morning.
Doctors Kato, Wenk and Singer.
Vectors are in the ducts,
in the elevator shafts, everywhere.
Listen, the only way a vector can get
into this room is through that door.
Peter came in
through that very same door.
Not with armed security posted,
he didn't.
Isn't it the arm of security
that got him inside?
Philippe. Philippe, listen to me.
All right.
I think we got a message out
calling for help.
All right? You're the only other
person who knows about this,
so you help me
hold it together here,
and we may just
get out of this alive.
All right, Alan.
You've entrusted me
with the safety of this base.
Why would you keep this bunker
from me?
There are things I thought
would never come to light.
You're only telling me now
because you have to.
I should have told you.
Even if we survive the blast, how
do we dig ourselves out afterward?
There is an escape tunnel
that leads directly to the surface.
An escape tunnel?
For all the earthquakes, right?
Daniel, I...
I mean, Miksa.
The world is closing in on us.
You mean on you.
The vectors are hunting us
from within,
ilaria from without.
I cannot do this without you.
I'm giving the highest-caliber
weapons to my security team.
The rest we can store
in this bunker of yours,
in case there are any mercenaries
left when we reach the surface.
Let's hope it does not
come to that.
I remember
when you first brought me here.
Taught me how to load a weapon.
I was 5 or 6.
Back then I used to think
you were some kind of wizard.
All children must learn
their parents are fallible, not perfect.
You made that part easy for me.
You may loathe what I've done,
or what you believe I've done,
but you are still my son.
Am I?
Your feelings for me
do nothing to diminish mine for you.
Alan, take a look at this.
So the double-stranded RNA
instructions delivered to all my cells
makes them express
an all-purpose grappling hook.
Which attach to any invader.
Marking that invader for destruction
by my immune system.
If we can isolate the genetic
sequence of instructions
to express that protein
on your cells...
We can insert the instructions
and reprogram the Narvik virus
to destroy itself.
We don't have the Narvik virus.
We incinerated it at Echelon.
Oh, goddamn it, Jules.
It was my call all the way.
This wasn't your call to make.
I had a theory.
A theory that could get us all killed,
not to mention the 7 billion
other people on the planet.
Do you have any idea
what you've done?
I know better than anyone
what this can do.
I know it's the only way
we can help those people.
How could you be so reckless?
You're no better than Hatake!
I guess I'm my father's daughter.
Jules...
I know I'm right about this.
We can save everyone.
We can get Peter back.
If I'm wrong, I'll march downstairs
and incinerate every last drop.
No. Not alone you won't.
Oh, my God.
Bunker will barely fit all of us.
Bunker?
These are living quarters.
How long has all this been here?
From the beginning.
Designed to be the safest place
on the base.
Why? Why did you build n?
Before I adopted you,
there was another.
Another son?
A daughter.
She was not like you,
not born on the ice.
So you built this place
for your daughter?
Her mother thought she would
need a place to call home,
to make her comfortable.
I did what was necessary.
To fool her?
To make her think
that she was somewhere else?
To keep my family together.
I thought I was your family.
You are.
What was doesn't change what is.
And where are they now?
Your wife and daughter?
Where did they go?
My daughter is here now.
Julia Walker.
Walker?
All of this,
everything that happened,
was all for her?
To bring her back here?
The CDC, Peter Farragut.
All those people,
infected, dying, dead?
It was all for her?
She is important.
I need her.
You don't need anybody.
We're all just an experiment
to you.
Life is an experiment.
You know what
I'm gonna do, Father?
I'm gonna walk this base,
and I'm gonna check
every goddamn explosive charge,
because I personally wanna make sure
that this place gets blown to hell.
I did the computer models
of double-stranded RNA proteins,
but I can't get it to work in vitro.
Well, if you guys unhook me
from this, I can help you.
Yesterday, you
were as good as dead.
Let's make sure
you're not going to regress before...
But I feel great.
Sarah, we have it covered.
Do you?
Computer models are only most
effective in controlled environments,
and this situation
is anything but controlled.
Okay. What do you have in mind?
In a fair fight, Narvik will mutate
to repel anything, right?
So, what we need
is an unfair advantage.
We have to trust that
our treatment will work fast enough.
No, wait, that's it.
There is no treatment
that's fast enough,
so we need to slow down the virus
for the cure to take effect.
And we can do that
by infusing it with cryo-fluid.
Did you just come up with that?
Actually, when my feel
hit the cold ground.
Now, where are my clothes?
I wanna get back to work.
Fire hazard.
♪ The sun is out ♪
♪ The sky is blue ♪
♪ There's not a cloud
To spoil the view ♪
♪ But it's raining ♪
♪ Raining in my heart ♪
♪ The weatherman ♪
♪ Says clear today ♪
♪ He doesn't know
You've gone away ♪
♪ And ifs raining ♪♪
We need to seal off the sunroom and
track down Duchamp and the others.
There is no more time.
The vectors really did this?
The intelligence, the coordination...
Are we the only ones left?
I've got four techs not infected yet.
This was their plan all along.
The traps, the bait.
The vectors wanted us to gather
the uninfected in one place.
We gave them everything they wanted.
We cannot afford to look back.
We should commence
the evac sequence.
No, no, there is still time.
Our only hope is to retreat
to the bunker and wait,
then eliminate both threats
with one blast.
So everyone else dies?
We have done all we can.
No. We've finally
cracked the antiviral.
And until ilaria get here,
we're going to help
everyone we can, including vectors.
You need to ask yourself,
are they worth saving?
Interesting question
considering the source.
The have murdered and maimed,
stolen the lives of others.
These are people, human beings.
Really?
Your brother
paid me a visit yesterday.
Only now do I understand why.
It was a warning. He knew
what they were going to do.
I should have put Peter down
when I had the chance.
You...
Enough! That's enough!
In the last 11 days, I have been
attacked, infected, left for dead,
and crated like an animal.
Not to mention being transformed
from the inside out.
I'm not gonna stand here and watch
my father and my ex-husband
behave like two schoolyard bullies.
Your father? What-f?
The vectors are working together.
If we cant manage that,
maybe we don't deserve to survive.
The infection is similar
to rabies.
Normally, we'd treat it
by coating the lymphatic tissue.
With an oral vaccine, of course.
Do you just expect them
to line up and say "ah"?
No, we do it old-school.
Bypass the mouth entirely
by way of an intramuscular
injection into the stomach.
Abdominal absorption
works slowly.
Not if you've bonded
the right protein accelerants.
It won't be immediate,
but it should work quickly.
It better.
We know that extreme cold slows the
virus, and likewise the vectors.
Dr. Jordan had the idea
of infusing the cure
into a low-temperature solution,
giving the antiviral time
to outperform the virus.
And how do you plan to get close
enough to inject the vectors?
We've done it before. We'll shut off the
power, chill the base to below freezing.
If we cut the main power supply, the
perimeter alert system will go dark.
We can't be blind
with ilaria a couple hours out.
Then the cure must be administered
one vector at a time.
It's too bad we can't just wheel these
out and douse them all with cryo-fluid.
Maybe we can.
It's called ARCA.
Indonesian for statue.
It's a...
It's a prototype to spread topical
antidotes for chemical attacks.
ARCA can harness most
compounds at any temperature.
All you need to do
is adjust the settings.
I was not aware of this research.
What lab did this come from?
No lab. It was just an idea I had.
You created this ARCA?
One man's scraps...
What the base discarded,
I repurposed.
How did I not know?
You had more important things
to do.
So who's gonna do the honors?
Julia and I will go.
When ilaria arrives,
you must lead the survivors
to the bunker,
then detonate the charges.
Now.
Please.
I think it's working.
It is because of you
that this is possible.
Oh, no, this is not
father-daughter bonding time.
I thought we were immune to attack.
We are.
But now they see one of their own
in danger.
Hey.
We need to get patients stabilized
before we take them downstairs.
I started grouping
according to condition.
Most serious cases go first.
Great.
You okay? Sarah?
It's just a headache.
No, look at me.
Follow my finger.
Alan, do you think this is
a reoccurrence of my tumor?
No, I've seen your scans, and your
tumor appears to be in remission.
But I am concerned.
Don't worry.
We'll figure this out together.
Okay?
Okay,
Hey.
Shh. It's okay.
You don't need to say anything.
Why...?
Because you need rest.
Why me?
I don't deserve...
You were there, I had the cure.
Good timing, I guess.
Peter's resting.
We need to talk.
Okay.
It's about Sarah.
What about Sarah?
She's having recurring symptoms.
Um, nausea, headaches.
You think she's relapsing?
I don't know.
Once we get down to the cabin,
we won't have access
to the right equipment.
Perimeter breach. Perimeter breach.
This is it. ilaria is here.
Perimeter breach.
Perimeter breach. Perimeter breach.
Start getting people to the cabin, now.
Okay.
Perimeter breach. Perimeter breach.
The alarm was tripped
a mile from the base entrance.
Is that enough time
to get downstairs?
We can use firepower
to buy us a little more time.
I see something.
Headlights.
How many?
They are here.
Wait until they get closer.
We don't wanna waste any ammo.
Steady.
Almost there.
Now hold.
Hold...
and...!
Why have they stopped?
Perhaps they did not
want to be heard.
I'm not seeing anyone.
My guess is they'll stick
to the high ground,
just north of the base,
coordinate an attack from there.
We should make our way around,
come at them from the south.
Approach downwind
from their position.
Where'd the drivers go?
There never was a driver.
These are drones.
This is... This is all wrong.
No. Get down!
It was a diversion.
A diversion from what?
As soon as Duchamp and his
group get here, we'll blow the base.
My staff, the scientists.
Almost all here.
You don't understand.
We must detonate. Now.
He's here.
Who's here? What do you mean?
The strike team?
No. There is just one.
That diversion was for one guy?
They call him the Scythe.
- He is...
- He's what?
An assassin.
The worst of us.
The call must have gone through.
Are you with the Army?
Come.
We're going down with the others.
Finally, a good day.
We're being rescued
and we have a cure for the virus.
Level R.
How long are we gonna wait?
As long as we have to.
If they're not down here by now,
they're not coming.
Sarah, you okay?
Oh, this migraine, it's killing me.
It's not a migraine.
What's wrong with me?
We can't wait any longer.
Do it.
Access granted.
Amateurs.
The Narvik is gone.
How?
Hiroshi has it.
Find him.
What about the others?
Exterminate.
Ripped By mstoll